# LLM-Urban-Transportation-Knowledge

Inspired by the impressive multi-domain knowledge presented by large language models (LLMs), this study investigates whether pretrained LLM agents possess grounded understanding of the real-world heterogeneous urban transportation systems. Multiple LLM agents and various datasets from diverse metropolitan transportation systems including road traffic, public transit, and electrified transportation are considered for comprehen-sive evaluation.

## LLMs
The **Llama-3.1-8B**, **Qwen-3-8B**, and **Qwen-3-14B** agents, three competitive, open-source, lightweight, and ultra-fast pretrained LLMs, are applied in this study. Released in July 2024, ex-periments have revealed the superiority of the Llama-3.1-8B model over the well-known GPT-3.5-Turbo model with 20 billion parameters across a variety of tasks. Qwen-3-8B and Qwen-3-14B are recent state-of-the-art open-source LLMs unveiled in May 2025. In contrast to the Llama-3.1-8B model, they support “thinking mode”, allowing step-by-step reasoning before final answers for complex problems. Qwen-3-8B is generally superior to the DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Qwen-32B model, while Qwen-3-14B has exhibited comparable performance to the QwQ-32B model.

## Datasets
- **BART**: The BART dataset includes the hourly ridership of 50 stations in the San Francisco Bay Area’s rapid transit system in 2024. Each station serves as a basic spatial unit. Since metro stations are commonly the local landmarks, their names are provided to pretrained LLM agents to obtain spatial heterogeneity insights.
- **METR-LA**: The METR-LA dataset contains 5-minute average speed data collected from 207 urban highway sensors from March to June in 2012, released by the Los Angeles Metropolitan Transportation Authority. Each sensor serves as a basic spatial unit, labeled with the name of nearby landmark. Therefore, the sensors’ names with their located highways are provided to pretrained LLM agents to obtain spatial heterogeneity in-sights. The temporal details are inquired at a 15-minute interval.
- **UrbanEV**: The UrbanEV dataset includes hourly electric vehicle charging occupancies from 17,532 piles between September 1, 2022 and February 28, 2023, in Shenzhen City, Guangdong Province, China. A total of 275 traffic analysis zones (TAZs) serve as basic spatial units for occupancy aggregation. Since the TAZs are randomly labeled, the authors provide all the names of bus and metro stations within the corresponding TAZ to LLM agents for spatial heterogeneity insights. The raw queries are prepared in Chinese for the dataset describing a transportation system in China.
- **SUBWAY-MTA**: The SUBWAY-MTA dataset provides hourly ridership data for 428 subway stations in the New York City metropolitan area in 2024. Details for obtaining LLMs’ knowledge are consistent with those for the BART dataset.
